Welcome to Cinema Summary, ladies and gentlemen.
Everyone’s has fantasies,
it's when they come to light that they get us in trouble
This is Stanley Kubrick's Eyes Wide Shut.
So the movie begins with Dr. Bill Harford and
Alice Harford getting ready
for a Christmas party hosted by the bill’s client: Victor Ziegler
As they leave, they check in with their daughter
and the babysitter
and then head to the fancy Christmas party
with live music, drinks and dances
yet the Hartford's know nobody there except
for a Mr. Ziegler, Bill’s client, who invites
them every year.
As they dance, Bill recognizes the pianist
as Nick, an old friend who dropped out from
med school and goes to talk to him as Alice
goes to the ‘bathroom’,
downing a drink as she does so.
Bill’s conversation with Nick reveals that
Nick now works at the Sonata Cafe, and tells him
to drop by when he has time.
All the while, Alice stands aloof and away
from the crowd
drinking her champagne and the thing about aloof women?
Some guys see them as a challenge much like this man,
Sander Szavost:
a well-read, charming Hungarian whose
interest in Alice is very apparent
and although he can’t take her out, he can ask for a dance.
As they dance, Alice sees Bill chatting it
up with some broads in the reflection of a
mirror and Sander can’t help but ask Alice
why she would settle for someone like Bill
when she could have any man in the world?
Meanwhile, Bill walks arm-in-arm being lead
away by the women who coil around him like
two snakes but before anything can happen
he is asked to meet Mr. Ziegler.
Mr. Ziegler wanted Bill’s help since his
lady friend, Mandy has a problem.
She had a bad reaction after shooting up with
heroin and coke and since Bill’s a doctor,
he can give her a checkup.
and when we see her lying there, she’s lying
in the same way as the painting behind Ziegler.
As Bill examines her, Sander and Alice are
still dancing, Alice in a drunken stupor getting
closer and closer to Sander
until Sander invites her upstairs
to see a collection of bronze sculptures.
She leans in, and makes her decision:
Not tonight
but leaves with a flirty goodbye.
Bill concludes that Mandy’s condition is
stable and she’ll be okay after an hour
or so but she needs to lay off the drugs;
Ziegler’s extremely grateful and asks Bill
to keep this a secret between them although
he shouldn’t have to since they’re friends.
So in case you missed that, Ziegler is a man
who cannot be trusted.
He had Bill come up ‘to talk’ to him when in actuality he needed someone
to give Mandy a checkup.
Ziegler than makes Bill keep this a secret from everyone else
because  it would have made him (Ziegler) look bad.
He has many such secrets soon to be revealed.
Back home, Bill passionately kisses Alice,
both of them nude and ready for love,
But Alice looks at her reflection, and you can
tell she’s either unhappy or frustrated
about something and she is clearly hiding
it from Bill.
The next day, Bill goes to work as Alice stays
at home and we see the difference of their
lives: the dull, domestic life of Alice in
contrast with the lively, professional life
of Bill.
That evening they smoke a joint, and chill
in their room.
Under the influence of marijuana, Alice has
the courage to ask Bill if he slept with those
two girls he was hitting on at the party.
Bill denies that he was hitting on anyone:
he was busy helping Ziegler to do anything,
which brings up the question:
Who was she dancing with?
Well, just a guy who wanted sex
Bill admits that ‘it’s understandable
since Alice is so beautiful’.
And Alice flabbergasted, asks him if he meant
to say that men only want to approach her
because she’s beautiful and Bill kind of
admits it.
It’s not black and white but you know how
men are.
From here, the conversation devolves into an
argument with Alice trying to get Bill to
admit that he does feel sexual attraction
for women;
that somewhere inside him is a desire to cheat.
Finally, Alice asks the question: Why doesn’t
Bill feel jealous of other men that hit on
Alice?
Because I- I believe in you Alice! You're faithful.
and she breaks down laughing,
"Are you kidding me, Bill?" leaving Bill confused
And then sh explains why she' laughing
last summer at Cape Codd, she saw a young stud
of a naval officer and although Bill and Alice
made love that summer,
she couldn’t stop thinking about the naval officer.
She admits that she was ready to break up
their marriage, and leave everything she has
if that naval officer asked her to do so.
It’s a revelation that shatters Bill’s
faith
but their conversation is interrupted as Bill answers the phone.
(By the way, throughout this movie, in high stress situations for Bill, something
interrupts him usually a phone or a doorbell
ringing)
It's about his patient, Lou Nathanson who has died and
Bill has to go over.
As he rides in the taxi, he can’t help but
think about the sailor and Alice.
It’s a haunting obsession that he can’t
shake off.
Bill arrives to find Nathan dead in bed and
his daughter, Marion, waiting for him.
Her father’s death was a surprise and as
Marion rambles on, the death of her father
not quite hitting her yet,
she talks about her boyfriend, Carl: they’re going to get
married soon, and leave for Michigan and out
of nowhere she starts kissing him, telling
Bill, she loves him. "I love you! I love you!" All the while
Bill tries to convince Marion that she’s
making the wrong choice, in fact they barely
know each other but she doesn’t care.
Until the doorbell rings (and you see now this time it's a doorbell)
This time it's Carl, Marion's boyfriend.
who enters and gives his condolences and Bill takes that
as an excuse to leave as Marion stays haunted
by her lust.
So in case you hadn't noticed
Bill and Alice's relationship is mirrored by that of Carl and Marion's
Where Bill is Marion's 'version', of Alice's naval officer fantasy
Marion's sexual attraction to Bill is her secret that only Bill and her know
As Bill walks, he can’t stop thinking about
what Alice told him:
her sexual fantasy echoing in his head
but as he walks he’s approached by a prostitute
named Domino.
Who persuades him to come into her apartment.
Where they ‘negotiate the price’ for sex,
meanwhile Alice is stuck at home unaware of
what’s going on and calls Bill just before
they start. (There it is again)
She wants to know when he’s coming back
from visiting Marion and her dead dad and
he lies to her, telling her he’s unsure
when it will end and that he’s waiting for
more relatives to arrive.
After the call ends, Bill has second thoughts
and leaves Domino with 150 bucks without having
any sex.
His walk from the apartment takes him to the
Sonata Café where Nick the Pianist plays
and they chat.
We learn that Nick’s family lives in Seattle
while he’s here working some interesting
music gigs.
Interesting since he plays at a new place
every time never knowing until the last moment
where he’s supposed to play and with a blindfold
on.
Strange right?
Even stranger since at the last gig he played
at, the blindfold came loose and he saw some
dropdead gorgeous gals and Bill's like
"Wait, what are you talking about? Dude, I NEED to come to that 'party'."
As he talks, Nick writes down ‘Fidelio’,
the password for his next gig, and gives him (Bill)
The address and tells him to get a costume and mask since everyone is wearing one at the party.
Bill goes to a costume rental outlet where
an old friend runs the Rainbow Costume Rental
Service, only to find out from the current
owner, Mr. Milich, that his ‘old friend’
moved out and no longer owns it.
After bribing Millich to get in, Milich searches
for the outfit Bill wants, but both of them
hear something.
Milich walks into another room to find his
daughter and 2 elderly men half-naked and
he locks the men inside the room (threatening
to call the police) as his daughter runs out.
As Milich searches for the outfit, his daughter
whispers into Bill’s ear “You should have
a cloak lined with ermine” and coyly walks
away, with a knowing smile.
That's girl talk for "I think you need a nice outfit"
With his costume ready, Bill takes a taxi
to the address of Nick’s next gig, still
haunted by what Alice told him.
He arrives to find 2 men waiting outside a
gate, and gives them the password "Fidelio"
when he is taken inside the mansion; where inside masked men wait
and welcome guests and Bill finds himself
walking in on a group of cloaked figures,
standing around an inner circle of equally
cloaked figures with a person in red
chanting and swinging a smoking censure
in the middle.
The person chants eerily as Nick plays blindfolded
and Bill can only watch as the inner ring
of figures undress revealing themselves to be women.
As this is going on, 2 people turn to stare
down at Bill, nodding their heads.
Before focusing on the ritual, which has changed:
every time the crimson figure stamps their
staff, one of the masked women stand up and
choose someone from amongst the group and
one of them choose Bill.
The Masked Woman can tell he’s never done
this before and warns him to leave, because
he’s in danger and there might not be another
chance to get away.
Only for the woman to be taken away by another
masked man who is part of the staff.
Alone, Bill walks deeper into mansion watching
partyguests engaging in all kinds of wild
sex and as he stares dumbfounded
the masked woman from earlier leads him away
and tells him he needs to get out now!
He has to leave alone because if she comes
with him it could cost her: her life and maybe
his and she leaves before he can unmask her.
Just in time for a masked butler to come and
tell Bill that his taxi cab wants a word
with him.
Except Bill is taken back to the room from
earlier, the crimson cloaked figure, speaks
in a man’s voice, inviting him ‘to come
forward’.
Everyone stares at him as he walks, closing
off any exits, and now the interrogation begins.
The crimson man asks him for the password
and Bill says it “Fidelio” but then the
crimson man asks Bill for the password ‘for
the house’ and Bill can only lie saying
“I’ve forgotten it”, there’s an audible
gasp when the partygoers hear this.
He’s asked to unmask and undress.
Yes, that’s right, get naked in front of
everyone here but Bill is saved at the last
moment when the Masked Woman comes to his rescue.
She offers herself up in his place, in their
words to ‘redeem’ him, sacrificing herself,
so they set Bill free with a warning: Don’t
tell anyone about this, because there will
be consequences for Bill and his family.
The woman is led away and Bill can’t help
but ask what’s going to happen to her.
Nothing that concerns you, now go.
Interestingly enough, this whole orgy party thing is very reminiscent of the stories about secret societies
Where the rich and powerful get together and hangout, throwing wild sex parties
or indulge in occult rituals
Back home,
As Bill, lays down in bed, Alice is sleep-laughing
when she’s woken up by Bill and tells him
about her dream.
In her dream, they were in a deserted city,
naked and afraid, and she was angry at Bill
thinking it was his fault that they were here
who in the dream ran away to find their clothes.
But as soon as Bill ran away, the nightmare
changed with Alice laying naked in the middle
of the woods visited by the naval officer
who only came to laugh and look at her.
She stops herself; But Bill knows that’s
not the end of the dream and asks her how
it ended and she doesn’t want to do it.
In her words it was awful; its only after
hugging him that she tells Bill that the officer
made love to her and then suddenly there was
a crowd of people around them, all of them
having an orgy, and having sex with Alice,
laughing at Bill.
In her dream.
But was it only a dream?
Alice’s dream is eerily similar to what happened at the party.
But what exactly does this mean?
Is Alice just guilty over her confessed sexual desires?
Was she at the party?
Or is this coincidence, karma striking back at Bill through Alice's dream?
Keep this in mind, this will come into play later
Back to the movie.
The next day Bill manages to find out where
Nick is staying.
But when he gets there, Bill is told Nick
checked out at 5 and didn’t even leave a
forwarding address.
That’s strange, was Nick acting weird when
he checked out?
and the receptionist confides with Bill that
Nick came in at 4:30 with 2 burly dudes, and
Nick had a bruised cheek and he was terrified.
Nick went up to his room with one of the guys
while the other guy stayed downstairs and paid the bill.
But when Nick came down he tried to pass the
receptionist an envelope except it was taken
by the men and together they drove off without
a trace.
Bill goes back to the costume shop and returns
everything but the mask.
Huh, must've lost it, just put it on the bill
and just as Milich calculates the bill, his
daughter comes in and the two guys from the
night before are also there.
Mr. Milich, weren’t you going to call the
police on these men?
Well, we’ve come to a different agreement
and if you ever need anything Mr. Doctor–
anything at all – come back again.
at work can’t help but reflect
on Alice and the sailor.
As well as the party, he needs to know what
happened last night, and cancels all appointments
for the afternoon as he heads back to the
mansion.
As he approaches the gates, the security camera
watches him, and a car drives up and its driver
comes out.
Handing Bill an envelope with a letter that
warns him to back off from trying to find
out about last night and the orgy-cult.
May this be the last warning, Bill needs.
Bill decides to visit the prostitute from
earlier, Domino but when he rings her doorbell,
she’s gone and only her roommate, Sally, is there.
Who invites him in.
Inside, he asks Sally the roommate when Domi
no will be back and her answer is:
she might not be back.
Sally reveals that Domino tested positive
for HIV+. and after a moment, Bill takes that
as his cue to leave.
As he’s walking, a suspicious man follows
him, and Bill checks several times to see
if this guy’s following him, stopping to
buy a newspaper and keep his eye on his stalker.
The guy following is particular to stop below
a lamppost, staring directly at Bill before
finally walking away without a word.
Thoroughly spooked, Bill walks into a coffee
shop where he reads the newspaper to find
a shocking headline: ex-beauty queen hospitalized.
The beauty queen in question?
Amanda Curran, a.k.a. Mandy from the Christmas
Party who almost overdosed to death.
Bill goes to the hospital where’s she’s
hospitalized only to find out that Amanda
died earlier.
He can’t believe it and goes to the morgue
to see her body and he remembers what the
masked woman told him at the orgy:
It would cost me, my life and maybe yours.
In case it wasn’t clear: Bill believes that
the Masked Woman at the Mansion party is Amanda
Curran.
This would explain why the Masked Woman saved Bill's Life
Amanda felt indebted to Bill
after he saved her life at the Christmas
Party.
But they are not identical in body, so who is she?
We're gonna find out who she is real son
As Bill leaves the hospital, he's called over to visit Ziegler for a little chat
Because Ziegler's not happy with Bill: he was there at the mansion 'that night'
and since then, Bill has gotten a lot of people in trouble with his investigation into NIck
So you might be wondering how does Ziegler know this? Ziegler had Bill followed
Then Ziegler starts answering Bill's questions
Where did Nick go?
He's probably on a plane back to Seattle to go to his family
What about the bruises on his face?
It was a light punishment
Who were those people at the party?
Powerful people that could get Bill into a lot of trouble
How did they know Bill was there?
For 1, they tricked Bill into believing that there was a second password
Secondly, he arrived in a taxi cab when everyone else rode in limos
Well what about the woman who saved Bill?
Ziegler then suggests that maybe that "sacrifice-redemption thing"
Was all a charade to scare Bill into silence and to stop him talking about the cult
That's when Bill asks about Amanda. He asks Ziegler if Amanda was the Masked Woman at the party
Yes, Bill. She was
In that case, if it's all 'fake', how does someone die from a 'fake party'?
And Ziegler is very frank with him:
She was a hooker. She was used by a bunch of guys that night,
and when she got home, she overdosed
It was a matter of time!
You know how hookers are!
Ziegler tries to reassure Bill, telling him that no one killed anyone
Someone just died. Life goes on!
But Bill isn't comforted by his words but he accepts them
An exhausted Bill returns home to find his mask that he lost at the party
laying on his pillow with Alice asleep next to it
and Bill breaks down.
Waking Alice up and repeating to her “He’ll
tell her everything”.
We then see Alice smoking, her eyes bloodshot
from crying, and Bill sitting on the couch
equally distraught.
Having talked the whole night through, and
in the early hours of morning, Alice tells
Bill that they have to go Christmas shopping
with their daughter.
While shopping, Bill asks Alice what they
should do and the only thing she can think
of is to be grateful!
That they’ve been through so much, surviving
both their dreams and the real world.
And although Alice isn’t sure but she knows this:
sometimes the only thing that’s real is the small
part of the big picture that you see: Your
life;
and that’s okay, they’re both ‘awake'
able to talk about their feelings,
still in love, and able to move on.
But Bill isn't sure. Was it really only a dream?
So you’re probably really confused right?
First off: That’s kind of the point
This movie uses masks, secrets, lies, and general surreality.
The heart of this movie is all about how hiding secrets can have ugly consequences
At the end of the movie, Alice and Bill finally come clean
and it's only then that their relationship improves
Because they're perfectly honest with each other; because they wake up from their dream
So a lot of strange things happen to Bill, that night, while he is walking
Like he's approached by a prostitute. That's totally possible right? But super unlikely.
But the same night he goes to an orgy? Totally possible, again. But also super unlikely
It's like this movie has no cuts between the 'dream' and the 'reality'
It's like when you wake up and you think to yourself
"Wait, was I dreaming or was that real?"
and this movie captures this feeling perfectly
So if you remember: Alice has a dream about an orgy
and it's unclear, at this point, if Alice was at the sex party
But my understanding is that she was having a dream and her dream was merely coincidental
It was out of this guilt over her confessed sexual desires, and her sexual frustration
With Bill
And that brings me to my next point: Ziegler
I believe he's lying since he cares too much about his own social standing
Rather than the truth
So I believe that Nick was killed
Why?
Because he revealed the existence of the group to an outsider, Bill.
And he was punished by being killed
Which brings me to my next point: Amanda
This movie tries to trick you into believing that Amanda was the Masked Woman
But she's not. It's obvious, physically speaking, it's different.
and I know for a fact that the actress for the Masked Woman and Amanda is different
So it was just an attempt to confuse you
and the identity of the Masked Woman, stays a mystery
So one last thing: There is no evidence, officially, that 20 minutes was removed from this film
Even Katharine Kubrick, Stanley Kubrick's daughter, says the movie was finished
So from my research, from what I found:
Is that there is no evidence that 20 minutes was cut from the movie
That's what I found. That's what I think.
But what do you think? What do you think is happening in this movie?
Whatever you think, leave your comments down below.
With that being said, thank you for watching,
ladies and gentlemen.
If you liked it, leave a like down below
and subscribe to get updated on our latest
uploads and remember!
Keep your eyes wide open.